request_uri extension (#59)
openid/OpenID4VP: openid-4-verifiable-presentations-1_0.md

The Authorization Request follows the definition given in [@!RFC6749] taking into account the recommendations given in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-security-topics].

The Verifier MAY send an Authorization Request as a Request Object either by value or by reference, as defined in the JWT-Secured Authorization Request (JAR) [@RFC9101].

The Wallet may want to provide to the Verifier details about its technical capabilities to
allow the Verifier to generate a request that matches the technical capabilities of that Wallet.

> To enable this, the first Authorization Request can contain a `request_uri_method` parameter with the value `post`

Author: removed "first"

> To enable this, the first Authorization Request can contain a `request_uri_method` parameter with the value `post`

Reviewer: The request object obtained from the request_uri is aslo an Authorization Request or part of the same multi step Authorization Request flow. The wording is a bit tricky.

> To enable this, the first Authorization Request can contain a `request_uri_method` parameter with the value `post`

Reviewer 2: Wouldn't it be better to name this parameter something like `wallet_metadata_support` instead of naming this to the technical solution?

> The Wallet may want to provide to the Verifier details about its technical capabilities to
> allow the Verifier to generate a request that matches technical capabilities of that Wallet.
> To enable this, the first Authorization Request can contain `request_uri_method` parameter with the value `post`
> that signals to the Wallet that it can make an HTTP POST to the Verifier's `request_uri`
> endpoint with the information about its capabilities. The Wallet MAY continue with JAR
> when it receives `request_uri_method` parameter with the value `post` but does not support this new feature.

Reviewer: just tried to minimally fix-up some grammar 

```suggestion
The Wallet may want to provide to the Verifier details about its technical capabilities to
allow the Verifier to generate a request that matches the technical capabilities of that Wallet.
To enable this, the first Authorization Request can contain a `request_uri_method` parameter with the value `post`
that signals to the Wallet that it can make an HTTP POST requst to the Verifier's `request_uri`
endpoint with information about its capabilities. The Wallet MAY continue with JAR
when it receives `request_uri_method` parameter with the value `post` but does not support this new feature.
```

Reviewer 3: @bc-pi `requst` -> `request`

Reviewer: > @bc-pi `requst` -> `request`

Thx, fixed it in the suggestion

Reviewer 4: I would suggest omitting `new` in be `the new feature`.

Author: committed suggestion and removed "new" afterwards

> The Wallet may want to provide to the Verifier details about its technical capabilities to
> allow the Verifier to generate a request that matches the technical capabilities of that Wallet.
> To enable this, the Authorization Request can contain a `request_uri_method` parameter with the value `post`
> that signals to the Wallet that it can make an HTTP POST request to the Verifier's `request_uri`
> endpoint with information about its capabilities. The Wallet MAY continue with JAR
> when it receives `request_uri_method` parameter with the value `post` but does not support this feature.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This specification defines a new mechanism for the cases when the Wallet wants to provide to the Verifier details about its technical capabilities to
allow the Verifier to generate a request that matches the technical capabilities of that Wallet.
To enable this, the Authorization Request can contain a `request_uri_method` parameter with the value `post`
that signals to the Wallet that it can make an HTTP POST request to the Verifier's `request_uri`
endpoint with information about its capabilities as defined in {#request_uri_method_post}. The Wallet MAY continue with JAR
when it receives `request_uri_method` parameter with the value `post` but does not support this feature.
```

Can we please make it clear that this paragraph describes a new mechanism defined by this specification?

Also, i think this deserves a bullet point in  https://openid.github.io/OpenID4VP/openid-4-verifiable-presentations-wg-draft.html#section-4

Reviewer 5: also here is probably a good place to establish terminology. the first request from the verifier with `request_uri_mode` is authorization request. what is the POST request from the wallet? wallet capabilities request? probably better to reuse the same terminology as JAR: "the wallet retrieves Request Object using POST request"..

The Authorization Request follows the definition given in [@!RFC6749] taking into account the recommendations given in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-security-topics].

> The Verifier MAY send an Authorization Request as Request Object by value or by reference as defined in JWT-Secured Authorization Request (JAR) [@RFC9101]. Additionally, the request can be an object containing only a subset of parameters needed to, in a subsequent step, request the creation of a request object from the Verifier through an HTTPS POST request via a newly introduced `create request endpoint`. 

Reviewer 6: Does this mean the first request object can be a partial JAR and the subsequent request object contains the remaining authorization request parameters?

Or does it mean it can be either a JAR, or something else that is something like a partial authorization request object and  the remaining parameters must be obtained from the create_request_uri endpoint? 

What das the "Additionally" refer to?

Reviewer 6: I think this concern gets resolved by my suggestions below. So, I"m resolving this for now.

> The Verifier MAY send an Authorization Request as Request Object by value or by reference as defined in JWT-Secured Authorization Request (JAR) [@RFC9101]. Additionally, the request can be an object containing only a subset of parameters needed to, in a subsequent step, request the creation of a request object from the Verifier through an HTTPS POST request via a newly introduced `create request endpoint`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Verifier MAY send an Authorization Request as a Request Object either by value or by reference, as defined in the JWT-Secured Authorization Request (JAR) [@RFC9101]. The Request Object MAY contain only a subset of parameters, which the Wallet uses to request the creation of a new Request Object from the Verifier. This request is made using an HTTP POST request to the Verifier's `request_uri` endpoint. The Wallet MAY support this feature, providing some information about its technical capabilities to the Verifier and making the Verifier be able to create a Request Object specifically tailored to the capabilities of the requesting Wallet. Verifiers that support this feature MUST provide the `request_uri_method`, as defined below, to indicate to the Wallet that they support this feature.
```

> The Verifier may send an Authorization Request as Request Object by value or by reference as defined in JWT-Secured Authorization Request (JAR) [@RFC9101]. Additionally, the request can be sent as an object containing only a subset of parameters needed to in a subseqent step request the creation of a request object from the verifier through a HTTPS POST request via a newly introduced `create request endpoint`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Verifier MAY send an Authorization Request as Request Object by value or by reference as defined in JWT-Secured Authorization Request (JAR) [@RFC9101]. Additionally, the request can be an object containing only a subset of parameters needed to, in a subsequent step, request the creation of a request object from the Verifier through a HTTPS POST request via a newly introduced `create request endpoint`. 
```

> The Verifier articulates requirements of the Credential(s) that are requested using `presentation_definition` and `presentation_definition_uri` parameters that contain a Presentation Definition JSON object as defined in Section 5 of [@!DIF.PresentationExchange]. Wallet implementations MUST process Presentation Definition JSON object and select candidate Verifiable Credential(s) using the evaluation process described in Section 8 of [@!DIF.PresentationExchange].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Verifier specifies the requirements for the Credential(s) being requested using the `presentation_definition` and `presentation_definition_uri` parameters. These parameters contain a Presentation Definition JSON object as outlined in Section 5 of [@!DIF.PresentationExchange]. Wallet implementations are required to process this Presentation Definition JSON object and select suitable Verifiable Credential(s) following the evaluation process detailed in Section 8 of [@!DIF.PresentationExchange].
```

The Authorization Request follows the definition given in [@!RFC6749] taking into account the recommendations given in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-security-topics].

> The Verifier MAY send an Authorization Request as a Request Object either by value or by reference, as defined in the JWT-Secured Authorization Request (JAR) [@RFC9101]. The Request Object MAY contain a subset of parameters, which the Wallet uses to request the creation of a new Request Object from the Verifier. This request is made using an HTTP POST to the Verifier's `request_uri` endpoint. The Wallet MAY support this feature, which involves providing some details about its technical capabilities with the Verifier. This allows the Verifier to generate a Request Object that is specifically designed to match the capabilities of the Wallet making the request. Verifiers that support this feature MUST provide the `request_uri_method`, as defined below, to indicate to the Wallet that they support this feature.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The Verifier MAY send an Authorization Request as a Request Object either by value or by reference, as defined in the JWT-Secured Authorization Request (JAR) [@RFC9101].

The Wallet may want to provide to the Verifier details about its technical capabilities to
allow the Verifier to generate a request that matches technical capabilities of that Wallet.
To enable this, the first Authorization Request can contain `request_uri_method` parameter
that signals to the Wallet that it can make an HTTP POST to the Verifier's `request_uri`
endpoint with the information about its capabilities. The Wallet MAY continue with JAR
when it receives `request_uri_method` parameter but does not support this new feature.
```
I think it was a following sentence that gave me the impression that request_uri_method cannot be used when request object by reference: `The Request Object MAY contain a subset of parameters, which the Wallet uses to request the creation of a new Request Object from the Verifier.` 
I tried paraphrase/clarify, but I think this needs a separate section tbh.

Reviewer 7: This new wording is much more clear and should be used.

> The Verifier MAY send an Authorization Request as a Request Object either by value or by reference, as defined in the JWT-Secured Authorization Request (JAR) [@RFC9101]. The Request Object MAY contain a subset of parameters, which the Wallet uses to request the creation of a new Request Object from the Verifier. This request is made using an HTTP POST to the Verifier's `request_uri` endpoint. The Wallet MAY support this feature, which involves providing some details about its technical capabilities with the Verifier. This allows the Verifier to generate a Request Object that is specifically designed to match the capabilities of the Wallet making the request. Verifiers that support this feature MUST provide the `request_uri_method`, as defined below, to indicate to the Wallet that they support this feature.

Reviewer 6: Because I think that the initial request signing is not needed for this feature, there is no need for this updated language. It is totally fine to include request/request_uri as is.

> The Verifier specifies the requirements for the Credential(s) being requested using the `presentation_definition` and `presentation_definition_uri` parameters. These parameters contain a Presentation Definition JSON object as outlined in Section 5 of [@!DIF.PresentationExchange]. Wallet implementations are required to process this Presentation Definition JSON object and select suitable Verifiable Credential(s) following the evaluation process detailed in Section 8 of [@!DIF.PresentationExchange].

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The Verifier specifies the requirements for the Credential(s) being requested using the `presentation_definition` or `presentation_definition_uri` parameters. These parameters contain a Presentation Definition JSON object as outlined in Section 5 of [@!DIF.PresentationExchange]. Wallet implementations are required to process this Presentation Definition JSON object and select suitable Verifiable Credential(s) following the evaluation process detailed in Section 8 of [@!DIF.PresentationExchange].
```
I presume the parameters are mutually exclusive?
Also, in case of the `...uri`, the P.D. JSON is not contained in the parameter.

> The Verifier specifies the requirements for the Credential(s) being requested using the `presentation_definition` and `presentation_definition_uri` parameters. These parameters contain a Presentation Definition JSON object as outlined in Section 5 of [@!DIF.PresentationExchange]. Wallet implementations are required to process this Presentation Definition JSON object and select suitable Verifiable Credential(s) following the evaluation process detailed in Section 8 of [@!DIF.PresentationExchange].

Author: I don't know when this was changed. Will revert it to the text in "main".

A public key to be used by the Wallet as an input to the key agreement to encrypt Authorization Response (see (#jarm)). It MAY be passed by the Verifier using the `jwks` or the `jwks_uri` claim within the `client_metadata` or `client_metadata_uri` request parameter.

`request_uri_method`: 

> : OPTIONAL. A string determining the HTTP method to be used with the `request_uri` included in the same request. Two values are defined for `request_uri_method` in this specification: `get` and `post`. Please note that these values are case-insensitive. The GET method, as defined in [@RFC9101], involves the Wallet sending a GET request to retrieve a Request Object. The POST method, newly defined in this specification, involves the Wallet requesting the creation of a new Request Object as outlined in [@RFC9101] by sending an HTTP POST request to the request URI. This request using the HTTP POST is detailed in (#request_uri_method_post). 

Reviewer 7: Is it necessary to make these values case-insensitive?

Also, "Please note that..." is not language I would expect in a specification. What "involves" means is not very clear.

```suggestion
: OPTIONAL. A string determining the HTTP method to be used with the `request_uri` included in the same request. Two case-insensitive values are defined for `request_uri_method` in this specification: `get` and `post`. If `request_uri_method`  is `get`, the Wallet MUST send the request to retrieve the Request Object using the HTTP GET method, i.e., as defined in [@RFC9101]. If `request_uri_method`  is `post`, a supporting Wallet MUST send the same request using the HTTP POST method as detailed in (#request_uri_method_post). 
```

> `request_uri_method` MUST only be present if the request contains a `request_uri` parameter. If the `request_uri_method` parameter is not present, the Wallet MUST process the `request_uri` as defined in [@RFC9101]. Wallets not supporting the new method `post` will send a GET request to the request URI (default behavior as defined in [@RFC9101]).  

Reviewer 7: What if a value other than get/post is used?

Author: added error code and description in the Error Response section

> If the Verifier uses the `request_uri_method` `post`, it SHOULD add the `client_metadata` parameter to the authorization request and use it to pass its capabilities. This allows the Wallet to determine the intersection of capabilities between Verifier and Wallet and sent only these in the `wallet_metadata` request parameter of the Request URI POST request. If the Verifier will add a `client_id_scheme` to the Request Object, it MUST also add the same `client_id_scheme` to the Authorization Request.   

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the Verifier uses the `request_uri_method` set to `post`, it SHOULD add the `client_metadata` parameter to the authorization request to pass its capabilities. This enables the Wallet to assess the Verifier's capabilities, allowing it to transmit only the relevant capabilities through the `wallet_metadata` request parameter in the Request URI POST request. If the Verifier uses the parameter `client_id_scheme` in the Request Object, it MUST also add the same `client_id_scheme` value in the Authorization Request.   
```

> If the Verifier uses the `request_uri_method` set to `post`, it SHOULD add the `client_metadata` parameter to the authorization request to pass its capabilities. This enables the Wallet to assess the Verifier's capabilities, allowing it to transmit only the relevant capabilities through the `wallet_metadata` request parameter in the Request URI POST request. If the Verifier uses the parameter `client_id_scheme` in the Request Object, it MUST also add the same `client_id_scheme` value in the Authorization Request.   

Reviewer 7: What if it does not?

Author: if those values don't match, the wallet must terminate the process

Author: added to processing section

> A public key to be used by the Wallet as an input to the key agreement to encrypt Authorization Response (see (#jarm)). It MAY be passed by the Verifier using the `jwks` or the `jwks_uri` claim within the `client_metadata` or `client_metadata_uri` request parameter.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Wallet MAY use a Verifier's public key to encrypt the Authorization Response (see (#jarm)). The Verifier MAY provide this public key using the jwks or jwks_uri claim within the client_metadata or client_metadata_uri request parameter. Alternatively, other methods like OpenID Federation can be used, where the Verifier's metadata is provided within a Federation Trust Chain.
```

Reviewer 3: I'll provide a PR with the ref to Federation as well.

Author: this part of the spec is not subject of this PR

`request_uri_method`: 

> : OPTIONAL. A string determining the HTTP method to be used with the `request_uri` passed in the same request. This specification defines two values for this parameter: `GET` and `POST`. `GET` is 
> the mode as defined by in [@RFC9101], where the Wallet sends a GET request to fetch a request object. `POST` is a new mode defined in this specification where the Wallet requests the 
> creation of a fresh request object as defined in [@RFC9101] by sending a POST request to the request URI. The details of this request are defined in (#request_uri_method_post). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
: OPTIONAL. A string determining the HTTP method to be used with the `request_uri` included in the same request that can only  be used if the request contains a `request_uri` parameter. Two values are defined for `request_uri_method` in this specification: `get` and `post`. The GET method, as defined in [@RFC9101], involves the Wallet sending a GET request to retrieve a Request Object. The POST method, newly defined in this specification, involves the Wallet requesting the creation of a new Request Object as outlined in [@RFC9101] by sending an HTTP POST request to the request URI. This request using the HTTP POST is detailed in (#request_uri_method_post). 
```

Author: incorporated parts of your suggestions manually

> `request_uri_mode` MUST only be present if the request also contains a `request_uri` parameter. If the parameter is not present, the Wallet MUST process the `request_uri` as defined in 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`request_uri_mode` REQUIRED when the request contains a `request_uri` parameter. If `request_uri_mode` is not present, the Wallet MUST process the `request_uri` as defined in 
```

Reviewer 3: it seems to me that request_uri_mode is deprecated and that we can use request_uri_method only.

@tlodderstedt if you confirm this we can remove this parameter and update the next text and examples

Author: `request_uri_mode` is replaced by `request_uri_method`

Author: fixed example

> [@RFC9101]. Wallets not supporting the new method "POST" will send a GET request to the request URI (default behavior as defined in [@RFC9101]). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[@RFC9101]. Wallets not supporting the HTTP method POST MUST send a GET request to the request URI (default behavior as defined in [@RFC9101]). 
```

> This parameter SHOULD be sent in a signed authorization request in order to allow the Wallet to authenticate the Verifier before it fetches the presentation request from the Verifier's request URI. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `request_uri_mode` parameter SHOULD be included in a signed authorization request. This allows the Wallet to authenticate the Verifier prior to retrieving the presentation request from the Verifier's request URI.
```

Reviewer 3: it seems to me that request_uri_mode is deprecated and that we can use request_uri_method only.

if confirmed we just have to remove this parameter and its description.

Author: incorporated your suggestion manually

> `request_uri_mode` MUST only be present if the request also contains a `request_uri` parameter. If the parameter is not present, the Wallet MUST process the `request_uri` as defined in 
> [@RFC9101]. Wallets not supporting the new method "POST" will send a GET request to the request URI (default behavior as defined in [@RFC9101]). 
> This parameter SHOULD be sent in a signed authorization request in order to allow the Wallet to authenticate the Verifier before it fetches the presentation request from the Verifier's request URI. 
> This allows the Wallet to determine whether the Verifier is trustworthy before sending a request to its Request URI.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> This allows the Wallet to determine whether the Verifier is trustworthy before sending a request to its Request URI.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

A public key to be used by the Wallet as an input to the key agreement to encrypt Authorization Response (see (#jarm)). It MAY be passed by the Verifier using the `jwks` or the `jwks_uri` claim within the `client_metadata` or `client_metadata_uri` request parameter.

`create_request_uri`: 

> : OPTIONAL. A string containing an HTTPS URL pointing to a resource where the Wallet MUST request the creation of a request object as defined in [@RFC9101]. The details of this endpoint are defined in (#create_request_uri). This parameter MUST only be combined with `client_id`, `state`, `client_id_scheme`, and any client id scheme specific parameter. It SHOULD be sent in a signed authorization request. 

Reviewer 8: I think if the RP is registered in some trust framework (aka client_id_scheme), which the wallet can access using its own configured information, then a signed request is not needed if the wallet can determine that the asserted client_id is trustworthy and the wallet is not relying on any other unsigned information sent by the RP in the authz request i.e. the trust framework can provide the wallet with all the necessary metadata in a trustworthy manner.

i.e. it does not help a fake RP to pretend to be a trustworthy one, if the wallet sends the VP to the trustworthy RP's endpoint (except perhaps as a complex DOS attack on the trustworthy RP?)

> : OPTIONAL. A string containing an HTTPS URL pointing to a resource where the Wallet MUST request the creation of a request object as defined in [@RFC9101]. The details of this endpoint are defined in (#create_request_uri). This parameter MUST only be combined with `client_id`, `state`, `client_id_scheme`, and any client id scheme specific parameter. It SHOULD be sent in a signed authorization request. 

Reviewer 9: Yes this was my understanding too. If there is nothing more to it than this then I think we should remove this sentence, since it isn't helpful to say the request "SHOULD" be signed without any further context. If we haven't already we should probably add text to the effect of what you just described David, i.e. how a wallet can trust signed requests and when it can trust unsigned requests.

> : OPTIONAL. A string containing an HTTPS URL pointing to a resource where the Wallet MUST request the creation of a request object as defined in [@RFC9101]. The details of this endpoint are defined in (#create_request_uri). This parameter MUST only be combined with `client_id`, `state`, `client_id_scheme`, and any client id scheme specific parameter. It SHOULD be sent in a signed authorization request. 

Author: this text was replaced by the new text with a "request_uri_mode" - please review this text again

> : OPTIONAL. A string containing an HTTPS URL pointing to a resource where the Wallet MUST request the creation of a request object as defined in [@RFC9101]. The details of this endpoint are defined in (#create_request_uri). This parameter MUST only be combined with `client_id`, `state`, `client_id_scheme`, and any client id scheme specific parameter. It SHOULD be sent in a signed authorization request. 

Author: added some context - the primary purpose of the signature is to authenticate the verifier early in the process to prevent abuse of the request URI callback for tracking.

The following additional considerations are given for pre-existing Authorization Request parameters:

> `nonce`:

Reviewer 6: IMO, `nonce` should be provided only in the`create_request_uri` response which is a (signed) authorization request object in case `create_request_uri` is provided. Otherwise, it is fine to pass the nonce in the complete JAR in the first step.

> 

Reviewer 6: In general I'd prefer `request_uri_mode` since it indicates more than just the HTTP verb is changed, since we are allowing to send some additional parameters in the request.

Reviewer 3: if related to http methods it would be `request_uri_http_methods_supported` which its value type would be a JSON Array

Reviewer 3: my previous comment was related to the Verifier's metadata, I forget to mention it!

A public key to be used by the Wallet as an input to the key agreement to encrypt Authorization Response (see (#jarm)). It MAY be passed by the Verifier using the `jwks` or the `jwks_uri` claim within the `client_metadata` or `client_metadata_uri` request parameter.

`request_uri_method`: 

> : OPTIONAL. A string determining the HTTP method to be used with the `request_uri` included in the same request. Two case-insensitive values are defined for `request_uri_method` in this specification: `get` and `post`. If `request_uri_method`  is `get`, the Wallet MUST send the request to retrieve the Request Object using the HTTP GET method, i.e., as defined in [@RFC9101]. If `request_uri_method`  is `post`, a supporting Wallet MUST send the same request using the HTTP POST method as detailed in (#request_uri_method_post). 

Reviewer: It's kind of implied but maybe worth explicitly saying that `get` is the default value assumed when/if `request_uri_method` isn't present?

Reviewer 10: I think that's actually said (albeit a little indirectly but describing how the absence of `request_uri_method` is handled) in the next sentence.

Reviewer: Yeah, that's what I meant when saying it's kind of implied. I suppose that's good enough. I'll "resolve conversation"

> : OPTIONAL. A string determining the HTTP method to be used with the `request_uri` included in the same request. Two case-insensitive values are defined for `request_uri_method` in this specification: `get` and `post`. If `request_uri_method`  is `get`, the Wallet MUST send the request to retrieve the Request Object using the HTTP GET method, i.e., as defined in [@RFC9101]. If `request_uri_method`  is `post`, a supporting Wallet MUST send the same request using the HTTP POST method as detailed in (#request_uri_method_post). 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
: OPTIONAL. A string determining the HTTP method to be used with the `request_uri` included in the same request. Two case-insensitive values are defined for `request_uri_method` in this specification: `get` and `post`. If `request_uri_method` is `get`, the Wallet MUST send the request to retrieve the Request Object using the HTTP GET method, i.e., as defined in [@RFC9101]. If `request_uri_method` is `post`, a supporting Wallet MUST send the same request using the HTTP POST method as detailed in (#request_uri_method_post). 
```

> `request_uri_method` MUST only be present if the request contains a `request_uri` parameter. If the `request_uri_method` parameter is not present, the Wallet MUST process the `request_uri` as defined in [@RFC9101]. Wallets not supporting the new method `post` will send a GET request to the request URI (default behavior as defined in [@RFC9101]).  

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`request_uri_method` MUST only be present if the request contains a `request_uri` parameter. If the `request_uri_method` parameter is not present, the Wallet MUST process the `request_uri` as defined in [@RFC9101]. Wallets not supporting the method `post` will send a GET request to the request URI (default behavior as defined in [@RFC9101]).  
```

I would suggest omitting `new`.

> If the Verifier uses the `request_uri_method` set to `post`, it SHOULD add the `client_metadata` parameter to the authorization request to pass its capabilities. This enables the Wallet to assess the Verifier's capabilities, allowing it to transmit only the relevant capabilities through the `wallet_metadata` request parameter in the Request URI POST request. If the Verifier uses the parameter `client_id_scheme` in the Request Object, it MUST also add the same `client_id_scheme` value in the Authorization Request.   

Reviewer 6: - Not sure if it has to be "SHOULD add the `client_metadata`". This is only required if the Verifier assumes the Wallet has no other method to retrieve the `client_metadata`. If the `client_id_scheme` supports client metadata resolution, then `client_metadata` parameter is not necessary. I would suggest the following: 

> SHOULD add the `client_metadata` if the combination of `client_id` and `client_id_scheme` does not allow the Wallet to retrieve the client metadata.

Does this make sense?

Author: why not just MAY?

Reviewer 6: MAY is redundant since this is already the case, right?

Reviewer 6: I would adjust the language. I will make a proposal tomorrow. It should be highlighted that client_metadata in the authz request is not required and can be obtained from different sources and still use this feature.

Reviewer 6: Different sources, e.g., by retrieving it via entity statements using a combination of client_id and client_id_scheme.

Author: I modified the text so the Verifier should add the parameter only if there is no other way. I did not want to tie it t the client id scheme Please have a look whether the text works for you.

A public key to be used by the Wallet as an input to the key agreement to encrypt Authorization Response (see (#jarm)). It MAY be passed by the Verifier using the `jwks` or the `jwks_uri` claim within the `client_metadata` or `client_metadata_uri` request parameter.

`request_uri_method`: 

> : OPTIONAL. A string determining the HTTP method to be used with the `request_uri` included in the same request. Two case-insensitive values are defined for `request_uri_method` in this specification: `get` and `post`. If `request_uri_method` is `get`, the Wallet MUST send the request to retrieve the Request Object using the HTTP GET method, i.e., as defined in [@RFC9101]. If `request_uri_method` is `post`, a supporting Wallet MUST send the same request using the HTTP POST method as detailed in (#request_uri_method_post). 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
: OPTIONAL. A string determining the HTTP method to be used with the `request_uri` included in the same request. Two values are defined for `request_uri_method` in this specification: `get` and `post`. If `request_uri_method` is `get`, the Wallet MUST send the request to retrieve the Request Object using the HTTP GET method, i.e., as defined in [@RFC9101]. If `request_uri_method` is `post`, a supporting Wallet MUST send the same request using the HTTP POST method as detailed in (#request_uri_method_post). 
```

Reviewer 11: Nit: The HTTP spec states "The method token is case-sensitive (...). By convention, standardized methods are defined in all-uppercase US-ASCII letters" - https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#section-9. 
The IANA registry at https://www.iana.org/assignments/http-methods/http-methods.xhtml has `GET` and `POST` so I would suggest that we also use uppercase here.

Reviewer 7: I can accept either upper or lower case, but since parameters in this context are usually lower case, I have a preference for that.

> `request_uri_method`: 
> : OPTIONAL. A string determining the HTTP method to be used with the `request_uri` included in the same request. Two case-sensitive values are defined for `request_uri_method` in this specification: `get` and `post`. If `request_uri_method` is `get`, the Wallet MUST send the request to retrieve the Request Object using the HTTP GET method, i.e., as defined in [@RFC9101]. If `request_uri_method` is `post`, a supporting Wallet MUST send the same request using the HTTP POST method as detailed in (#request_uri_method_post). 
> `request_uri_method` MUST only be present if the request contains a `request_uri` parameter. If the `request_uri_method` parameter is not present, the Wallet MUST process the `request_uri` as defined in [@RFC9101]. Wallets not supporting the method `post` will send a GET request to the request URI (default behavior as defined in [@RFC9101]).  

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
`request_uri_method`: 
: OPTIONAL. A string determining the HTTP method to be used when the `request_uri` parameter is included in the same request. Two case-sensitive valid values are defined in this specification: `get` and `post`. If `request_uri_method` value is `get`, the Wallet MUST send the request to retrieve the Request Object using the HTTP GET method, i.e., as defined in [@RFC9101]. If `request_uri_method` value is `post`, a supporting Wallet MUST send the request using the HTTP POST method as detailed in (#request_uri_method_post). If the `request_uri_method` parameter is not present, the Wallet MUST process the `request_uri` parameter as defined in [@RFC9101]. Wallets not supporting the `post` method will send a GET request to the request URI (default behavior as defined in [@RFC9101]). `request_uri_method` parameter MUST NOT be present if a `request_uri` parameter is not present.
```

I don't understand what `the same request` means in "a supporting Wallet MUST send the same request using the HTTP POST method". same as JAR (but it's not the same AFAIK)?

explanation of the same parameter should probably not be across multiple paragraphs. need to double check, but i don't think it gets rendered as belonging to the same bulletpoint.

I would make it clear that `request_uri_method` parameter without a `request_uri` parameter is an error condition. I would also move that sentence to the end because it is inbetween the sentences that describe what to to do when the value is get/post and what if the value is present/wallet does not support it (which should be logically next to each other iMO).

I once had to do an editorial PR adding `parameter` after the parameter names  which were just in the text, so would appreciate if we can be consistent on "`request_uri_method` parameter" or "request URI method" (which would need to be defined.)

> If the Verifier uses the `request_uri_method` set to `post`, it SHOULD add the `client_metadata` parameter to the Authorization Request, if there is no other means to convey its capabilities to the Wallet. 
> This enables the Wallet to assess the Verifier's capabilities, allowing it to transmit only the relevant capabilities through the `wallet_metadata` request parameter in the Request URI POST request. If the Verifier uses the parameter `client_id_scheme` in the Request Object, it MUST also add the same `client_id_scheme` value in the Authorization Request.   

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If the Verifier set the `request_uri_method` parameter value to `post` and there is no other means to convey its capabilities to the Wallet, it SHOULD add the `client_metadata` parameter to the Authorization Request. 
This enables the Wallet to assess the Verifier's capabilities, allowing it to transmit only the relevant capabilities through the `wallet_metadata` parameter in the Request URI POST request. If the Verifier uses the `client_id_scheme` parameter in the Request Object, it MUST also add the same `client_id_scheme` value in the Authorization Request.   
```

the sentence structure with two if clauses "If xxx, it SHOULD, if xxx." should probably be simplified.

> : OPTIONAL. A string determining the HTTP method to be used with the `request_uri` included in the same request. Two case-insensitive values are defined for `request_uri_method` in this specification: `get` and `post`. If `request_uri_method` is `get`, the Wallet MUST send the request to retrieve the Request Object using the HTTP GET method, i.e., as defined in [@RFC9101]. If `request_uri_method` is `post`, a supporting Wallet MUST send the same request using the HTTP POST method as detailed in (#request_uri_method_post). 
> `request_uri_method` MUST only be present if the request contains a `request_uri` parameter. If the `request_uri_method` parameter is not present, the Wallet MUST process the `request_uri` as defined in [@RFC9101]. Wallets not supporting the method `post` will send a GET request to the request URI (default behavior as defined in [@RFC9101]).  
> 
> If the Verifier uses the `request_uri_method` set to `post`, it SHOULD add the `client_metadata` parameter to the authorization request, if there is no other means to convey its capabilities to the Wallet. 
> This enables the Wallet to assess the Verifier's capabilities, allowing it to transmit only the relevant capabilities through the `wallet_metadata` request parameter in the Request URI POST request. If the Verifier uses the parameter `client_id_scheme` in the Request Object, it MUST also add the same `client_id_scheme` value in the Authorization Request.   

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
: OPTIONAL. A string determining the HTTP method to be used with the `request_uri` included in the same request. Two case-insensitive values are defined for `request_uri_method` in this specification: `get` and `post`. If `request_uri_method` is `get`, the Wallet MUST send the request to retrieve the Request Object using the HTTP GET method, i.e., as defined in [@RFC9101]. If `request_uri_method` is `post`, a supporting Wallet MUST send the same request using the HTTP POST method as detailed in (#request_uri_method_post). 
`request_uri_method` MUST only be present if the request contains a `request_uri` parameter. If the `request_uri_method` parameter is not present, the Wallet MUST process the `request_uri` as defined in [@RFC9101]. Wallets not supporting the method `post` will send a GET request to the request URI (default behavior as defined in [@RFC9101]).  

If the Verifier uses the `request_uri_method` set to `post`, it SHOULD add the `client_metadata` parameter to the Authorization Request, if there is no other means to convey its capabilities to the Wallet. 
This enables the Wallet to assess the Verifier's capabilities, allowing it to transmit only the relevant capabilities through the `wallet_metadata` request parameter in the Request URI POST request. If the Verifier uses the parameter `client_id_scheme` in the Request Object, it MUST also add the same `client_id_scheme` value in the Authorization Request.   
```

    &nonce=n-0S6_WzA2Mj HTTP/1.1
```

The following is a non-normative example of a request object with a `create_request_uri``: 

```
{
  "iss": "https://client.example.org",

>   "aud": "https://server.example.com",

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Author: why do you want to remove the audience?

Reviewer 3: ok, it's signed.

please change client and server with some eloquent names belonging to this specific context and roles using Wallets ...

  "state": "af0ifjsldkj",
  "nonce": "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",
  "create_request_uri": "https://client.example.org/create_request"
}

> ```

Reviewer 3: if signed, shouldn't it have `iat`, `exp` as well?

    &nonce=n-0S6_WzA2Mj HTTP/1.1
```

The following is a non-normative example of a request object with a `create_request_uri``: 

```
{
  "iss": "https://client.example.org",
  "aud": "https://server.example.com",

>   "iat": 1541493724,

Reviewer 6: To support things like key (type) negotiation, it is required to support a parameter `wallet_metadata` or at least `jwks`/`jwks_uri` to support JARM (JWE/JWS) and ECDH-ES secured authorization response. Since in certain profiles JARM is required, this would lift a lot of effort from the verifier since the verifier does not have to compute ephemeral keys of all the different key types a wallet might support.

  "exp": 1516247022,
  "state": "af0ifjsldkj",

>   "nonce": "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",

Reviewer 6: IMO, `nonce` should not be in this request, it should be returned from the `create_request_uri` endpoint.

Author: that's an interesting remark. Having it here ties the whole transaction to this nonce. On the other hand, this also makes the request one time use (which prevents it from being used with the URL in a QR Code printed on paper). If nonce (and state?) is returned from the create request uri, would we need some marker/state value here to allow the verifier to determine the request context?

    &nonce=n-0S6_WzA2Mj HTTP/1.1
```

> The following is a non-normative example with a `request_uri_mode` parameter (including the additional parameters `client_id_scheme` and `client_metadata` : 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following is a non-normative example with a `request_uri_mode` parameter (including the additional parameters `client_id_scheme` and `client_metadata`): 
```

> The following is a non-normative example with a `request_uri_mode` parameter (including the additional parameters `client_id_scheme` and `client_metadata`): 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The following is a non-normative example with a `request_uri_method` parameter (including the additional parameters `client_id_scheme` and `client_metadata`): 
```

```

>   GET /authorize?

Reviewer 7: I think the indentation should be removed here.

Author: we use the same indentation for all GET request examples. suggest to clean that up in another PR

    client_id=client.example.org
    &client_id_scheme=x509_san_dns
    &client_metadata=...
    &request_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fclient.example.org%2Frequest

>     &request_uri_mode=post HTTP/1.1

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    &request_uri_method=post HTTP/1.1
```

```

> 

Author: filed issue #131

    &nonce=n-0S6_WzA2Mj HTTP/1.1
```

> The following is a non-normative example of a request object with a `request_uri_mode`: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following is a non-normative example of a Request Object with a `request_uri_method`: 
```

> The following is a non-normative example of a request object with a `request_uri_mode`: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following is a non-normative example of a Request Object with a `request_uri_method`: 
```

```
{
  "iss": "https://client.example.org",
  "aud": "https://server.example.com",
  "iat": 1541493724,
  "exp": 1516247022,
  "state": "af0ifjsldkj",
  "nonce": "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",
  "request_uri": "https://client.example.org/request",

>   "request_uri_mode": "create"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  "request_uri_method": "post"
```

>   "request_uri_mode": "create"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

>   "request_uri_mode": "create"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  "request_uri_method": "post"
```

Author: done

    &nonce=n-0S6_WzA2Mj HTTP/1.1
```

The following is a non-normative example with a `request_uri_method` parameter (including the additional parameters `client_id_scheme` and `client_metadata`): 

```
  GET /authorize?
    client_id=client.example.org
    &client_id_scheme=x509_san_dns
    &client_metadata=...

>     &request_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fclient.example.org%2Frequest

Reviewer 10: request_uri needs to be unique per request I think:

```suggestion
    &request_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fclient.example.org%2Frequest%2Fvapof4ql2i7m41m68uep
```

Reviewer 3: WDYT about this:

### attack scenario
An adversary that has obtained/steal the RP's private key would be able to issue its own signed requests at its own request_uri endpoint, as well as hijack presentations to some evil response_uri endpoint.

### solution

to prevent hijack attacks it would be better that the RP exposes the request_uri in its metadata and this metadata should be signed by a trusted third party. Having obtained the signed metadata, a wallet instance will use the attested endpoints.

### issue
See also: https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VP/issues/73 where I was suggesting using fragments to allow static uris in the metadata with random fragments withing them.

Author: @peppelinux not sure how you read your proposal. The issue you are referring to suggests randomized request URIs, that's inline with what @jogu suggests, right?
@jogu do you (implcity) answer my question whether we should assume the transaction state is carried through the request URI?

Reviewer 6: I think the transaction state is carried over by the request URI. Another option would be that the request_uri POST endpoint would also expect a `state` parameter if `state` was present in the authz request.

Reviewer 6: > An adversary that has obtained/steal the RP's private key would be able to issue its own signed requests at its own request_uri endpoint, as well as hijack presentations to some evil response_uri endpoint.

But isn't a undetected key compromise of the RP a much bigger problem? The key is there to trust the RP in case the `client_id_scheme` requires request signing.

If possible, I would not put the `request_uri` in the `client_metadata` since we would lose the JAR compatibility. It would only help if the `client_metadata` is not provided in the authz request.

Reviewer 10: I believe @peppelinux is suggesting adding metadata should that request_uri from the verifier has to match some kind of pattern. This would mean it can't be abused to get the wallet to fetch arbitrary urls. It might be a good change to make but I would say (as it affects both the get & post mode) it should be discussed in a separate issue.

Author: sounds like OAuth redirect URI pattern matching, something that has turned out to be brittle, we git rid of it with the Security BCP

Author: WG call: will adopt suggested change and open a new issue to discuss (potential) `state` parameter

    &nonce=n-0S6_WzA2Mj HTTP/1.1
```

> The following is a non-normative example with a `request_uri_method` parameter (including the additional parameters `client_id_scheme` and `client_metadata`): 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The following is a non-normative example of an Authorization Request with a `request_uri_method` parameter (including the additional `client_id_scheme` and `client_metadata` parameters): 
```

Other specifications can define further values for the `client_id_scheme` parameter. It is RECOMMENDED to use collision-resistant names for such values.

# Create Request Endpoint {#create_response_uri}

This endpoint is offered by the Verifier. The Wallet sends a request to this endpoint if the Verifier requests so by passing the `create_request_uri` authorization request parameter. In case of success, the response is a request object that the Wallet MUST process in the same way as a request object as defined in [@RFC9101]. 

> Create Request requests MUST be HTTPS POST requests with the "application/json" media type.

Reviewer 3: is signed, content type shouldn't be `application/jose`?

Author: should be `application/oauth-authz-req+jwt`

The following parameters are defined: 

`state`:
: A JSON String containing the value of the corresponding authorization Request's `state` parameter, if present.

`issuer`:

> : A JSON containing an HTTPS URL designating the Issuer URL of the Wallet (acting as a OAuth Authorization Server). The Verifier MAY obtain the Wallet's metadata by adding the well-know location `oauth-authorization-server` as specified in [@!RFC8414]. Metadata MAY also be provided by other means, for example in the wallet attestation. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
: A JSON containing an HTTPS URL designating the Issuer URL of the Wallet (acting as a OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server). The Verifier MAY obtain the Wallet's metadata by adding the well-know location `oauth-authorization-server` as specified in [@!RFC8414]. Metadata MAY also be provided by other means, for example in the wallet attestation. 
```

`w_nonce`:
: A JSON String containing as fresh, cryptographically random number with sufficient entropy the Verifier MUST use when creating the signed presentation request object. 

`client_assertion`
: A JSON String containing a Wallet attestation along with a proof of possession of the public key as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-attestation-based-client-auth]. This assertion is used to authenticate the Wallet towards the Verifier. 

### Create Request Response

> The Create Request Response MUST be HTTPS POST response with the "application/oauth-authz-req+jwt" media type and contain a signed request object as defined in [@RFC9101]. It MUST fulfill the requirements as defined in (#vp_token_request).

Reviewer 3: As suggested in my comments, I would not use authz request. If agreed we may change the texts. 

Anyway, this `application/oauth-authz-req+jwt` -> `application/wallet-discovery-request+jwt`

```suggestion
The Create Request Response MUST be HTTPS POST response with the "application/oauth-authz-req+jwt" media type and contain a signed request object as defined in [@RFC9101]. It MUST fulfill the requirements as defined in (#vp_token_request).
```

Author: see my comment, pls

Other specifications can define further values for the `client_id_scheme` parameter. It is RECOMMENDED to use collision-resistant names for such values.

> 

Reviewer 6: Since we are introducing a major change to the flow, would it make sense to mitigate phishing the way it is described here https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VP/issues/65 as well?

> # Create Request Endpoint {#create_response_uri}

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
# Create Request Endpoint {#create_request_uri}
```

> This endpoint is offered by the Verifier. The Wallet sends a request to this endpoint if the Verifier requests so by passing the `create_request_uri` authorization request parameter. In case of success, the response is a request object that the Wallet MUST process in the same way as a request object as defined in [@RFC9101]. 

Reviewer 6: Incosistent use of request object. Later on it is mentioned that this is the signed presentation request. IMO, the terminology should be made more clear. Especially, it is not clear what is the difference between the Authorization Request Object (as per JAR) and the new partial request object that this mechanism introduces.

Reviewer 6: ***Updated:***
This comment got superseded by the most recent changes and my other suggestions/comments below.

> Create Request requests MUST be HTTPS POST requests with the "application/oauth-authz-req+jwt" media type.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Create Request requests MUST use the HTTP POST method secured over TLS using the "application/oauth-authz-req+jwt" media type.
```

> The following parameters are defined: 

Reviewer 6: I cannot see where `w_ephm_key` was introduced but if that key can be included in `wallet_metadata`, then i don't see the need for this extra parameter. However, I agree that `wallet_metadata` would be needed for key/type negotiation.

> The following parameters are defined: 

Reviewer 6: Also note that there might be different keys for MAC and JWE.

> The following parameters are defined: 

Reviewer 6: Resolving this but similar concern is mentioned below in my updated review.

`state`:
: A JSON String containing the value of the corresponding authorization Request's `state` parameter, if present.

`issuer`:

> : A JSON containing an HTTPS URL designating the Issuer URL of the Wallet (acting as a OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server). The Verifier MAY obtain the Wallet's metadata by adding the well-know location `oauth-authorization-server` as specified in [@!RFC8414]. Metadata MAY also be provided by other means, for example in the wallet attestation. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
: A JSON containing an HTTPS URL designating the Issuer URL of the Wallet (acting as a OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server). The Verifier MAY obtain the Wallet's metadata by adding the well-know location `oauth-authorization-server` as specified in [@!RFC8414]. Metadata MAY also be provided by other means, for example in the Wallet attestation. 
```

`w_nonce`:
: A JSON String containing as fresh, cryptographically random number with sufficient entropy the Verifier MUST use when creating the signed presentation request object. 

`client_assertion`
: A JSON String containing a Wallet attestation along with a proof of possession of the public key as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-attestation-based-client-auth]. This assertion is used to authenticate the Wallet towards the Verifier. 

### Create Request Response

The Create Request Response MUST be HTTPS POST response with the "application/oauth-authz-req+jwt" media type and contain a signed request object as defined in [@RFC9101]. It MUST fulfill the requirements as defined in (#vp_token_request).

### Create Request Error Response

> The error code `401` signals to the Wallet that it needs to authenticate to the Verifier. In this case, the error response SHOULD contain a `WWW-Authenticate` header for every attestation method the Verifier supports.

Reviewer 9: More of a general comment. I find it strange that there is a mechanism to notify the wallet that it must authenticate with the verifier, but not the reverse. Out of scope for this PR perhaps, but is there a reason we wouldn't want to introduce such a mechanism?

Author: this text is gone

> Below a non-normative example for the Wallet attestation method as specified above. The `WWW-Authenticate` contains the nonce value the Wallet MUST use in the calculation of the proof of possession of the wallet attestation. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Below a non-normative example for the Wallet attestation method as specified above. The `WWW-Authenticate` contains the nonce value the Wallet MUST use in the calculation of the proof of possession of the Wallet attestation. 
```

Other specifications can define further values for the `client_id_scheme` parameter. It is RECOMMENDED to use collision-resistant names for such values.

## Request URI Method POST {#request_uri_method_post}

> This request is offered at the Request URI endpoint by the Verifier.  

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
This request is handled by the Request URI endpoint of the Verifier.  
```

The request MUST use the HTTP POST method with the https scheme and the media type set to "application/oauth-authz-req+jwt".

The following parameters are defined: 

`wallet_metadata`:
: OPTIONAL. A JSON Object containing metadata parameters as defined in (#as_metadata_parameters). 

`wallet_nonce`:

> : OPTIONAL. A JSON String containing as fresh, cryptographically random number with sufficient entropy the Verifier MUST use when creating the signed presentation request object. 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
: OPTIONAL. A JSON String containing a fresh, cryptographically random number with sufficient entropy the Verifier MUST use when creating the signed presentation request object. 
```

> : OPTIONAL. A JSON String containing as fresh, cryptographically random number with sufficient entropy the Verifier MUST use when creating the signed presentation request object. 

Reviewer 7: What is the presentation request object?

> : OPTIONAL. A JSON String containing as fresh, cryptographically random number with sufficient entropy the Verifier MUST use when creating the signed presentation request object. 

Reviewer 7: ...and neither on object (above), so we can drop that as well.

If the Wallet wants the Verifier to encrypt the request object, it SHOULD use the `jwks` or `jwks_uri` claim within `wallet_metadata` to pass the public key for the input to the key agreement. Other mechanisms to pass the encryption key can be used as well. 

> 

Author: done

### Request URI Response

> The Request URI Response MUST be a HTTPS POST response with the "application/oauth-authz-req+jwt" media type and contain a signed, optionally encrypted, request object as defined in [@RFC9101]. 

Reviewer 7: As above, media type meaning the content type?

> The Request URI Response MUST be a HTTPS POST response with the "application/oauth-authz-req+jwt" media type and contain a signed, optionally encrypted, request object as defined in [@RFC9101]. 

Reviewer 7: *an

> The Request URI Response MUST be a HTTPS POST response with the "application/oauth-authz-req+jwt" media type and contain a signed, optionally encrypted, request object as defined in [@RFC9101]. 

Reviewer 10: updated my suggestion to use 'an'.

> The Request URI Response MUST be a HTTPS POST response with the "application/oauth-authz-req+jwt" media type and contain a signed, optionally encrypted, request object as defined in [@RFC9101]. 

Reviewer: +1 to @jogu's suggestion (i.e. using HTTP response and content type)

> The Request URI Response MUST be a HTTPS POST response with the "application/oauth-authz-req+jwt" media type and contain a signed, optionally encrypted, request object as defined in [@RFC9101]. 

Reviewer: except I don't think Response should be capitalized for "Request URI Response" in text

> The Request URI Response MUST be a HTTPS POST response with the "application/oauth-authz-req+jwt" media type and contain a signed, optionally encrypted, request object as defined in [@RFC9101]. 

Reviewer 10: I updated my suggestion to fix 'Response' capitalisation, thanks Brian!

The following is a non-normative example of a request object:

```json
{
   "client_id": "client.example.org",
   "client_id_scheme": "x509_san_dns",
   "response_uri": "https://client.example.org/post",
   "response_type": "vp_token",
   "response_mode": "direct_post",
   "presentation_definition": {...},
   "nonce": "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",

>    "state" : "eyJhb...6-sVA

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
   "state" : "eyJhb...6-sVA"
```

}
```

> The Wallet MUST process the request process as defined in [@RFC9101]. Additionally, if the Wallet passed a `wallet_nonce` in the post request, the Wallet MUST validate whether the request object contains the respective nonce value in a `wallet_nonce`. If it does not, the Wallet MUST terminate request processing. 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The Wallet MUST process the request as defined in [@RFC9101]. Additionally, if the Wallet passed a `wallet_nonce` in the post request, the Wallet MUST validate whether the request object contains the respective nonce value in a `wallet_nonce`. If it does not, the Wallet MUST terminate request processing. 
```

> The request object MUST fulfill the requirements as defined in (#vp_token_request).

Reviewer 7: If this is meant as "The Verifier MUST create the request according to (#vp_token_request)" then this should be moved up. If this is meant to be a MUST for the Wallet to verify, it should be reworded and probably folded into the previous paragraph.

> The Wallet MUST extract the set of authorization request parameters from the Request Object. The Wallet MUST only use the parameters in this Request Object, even if the same parameter was provided in an authorization request query parameter. The Client ID value in the `client_id` authorization request parameter in the Request Object 'client_id' claim MUST be identical. If the Authorization Request contains a `client_id_scheme` parameter, the `client_id_scheme` authorization request parameter in the Request Object 'client_id_scheme' claim MUST be identical.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The Wallet MUST extract the set of authorization request parameters from the Request Object. The Wallet MUST only use the parameters in this Request Object, even if the same parameter was provided in an authorization request query parameter. The Client ID value in the `client_id` authorization request parameter in the Request Object `client_id` claim MUST be identical. If the Authorization Request contains a `client_id_scheme` parameter, the `client_id_scheme` authorization request parameter in the Request Object `client_id_scheme` claim MUST be identical.
```
...otherwise?

> The Wallet MUST extract the set of authorization request parameters from the Request Object. The Wallet MUST only use the parameters in this Request Object, even if the same parameter was provided in an authorization request query parameter. The Client ID value in the `client_id` authorization request parameter in the Request Object 'client_id' claim MUST be identical. If the Authorization Request contains a `client_id_scheme` parameter, the `client_id_scheme` authorization request parameter in the Request Object 'client_id_scheme' claim MUST be identical.

Reviewer 7: I wonder if the first sentence is not already implied by "The Wallet MUST process the request as defined in [@RFC9101]."

> The Wallet then validates the request, as specified in OAuth 2.0 [RFC6749].

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The Wallet then validates the request, as specified in OAuth 2.0 [@RFC6749].
```

Other specifications can define further values for the `client_id_scheme` parameter. It is RECOMMENDED to use collision-resistant names for such values.

## Request URI Method POST {#request_uri_method_post}

This request is handled by the Request URI endpoint of the Verifier.  

> The request MUST use the HTTP POST method with the https scheme the content type "application/x-www-form-urlencoded" and the accept header set to "application/oauth-authz-req+jwt".

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The request MUST use the HTTP POST method with the https scheme, and the content type "application/x-www-form-urlencoded" and the accept header set to "application/oauth-authz-req+jwt".
```

The following parameters are defined: 

`wallet_metadata`:

> : OPTIONAL. A String containing a value the Verifier MUST use in the `wallet_nonce` authorization parameter when creating the signed presentation request object. For example, a base64url encoded fresh, cryptographically random number with sufficient entropy. 

Reviewer: Wait... the parameter is named wallet_metadata but the text reads as though it's about the nonce.  And wallet_nonce is the next param.

Reviewer 3: wow, yes, it seems quite obvious.

Reviewer 7: Looks like this was an accidental mix-up in one of the latest commits: https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VP/pull/59/commits/e1276ec43e7b7de4fa5849a5f79fd79c5267ae28

Author: fixed

`wallet_nonce`:
: OPTIONAL. A String containing as fresh, cryptographically random number with sufficient entropy the Verifier MUST use when creating the signed presentation request object. 

> If the Wallet wants the Verifier to encrypt the request object, it SHOULD use the `jwks` or `jwks_uri` claim within `wallet_metadata` to pass the public key for the input to the key agreement. Other mechanisms to pass the encryption key can be used as well. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the Wallet wants the Verifier to encrypt the request object, it SHOULD use the `jwks` or `jwks_uri` parameter within `wallet_metadata` to pass the public key for the input to the key agreement. Other mechanisms to pass the encryption key can be used as well. 
```

### Request URI Response

The Request URI Response MUST be a HTTPS POST response with the "application/oauth-authz-req+jwt" media type and contain a signed, optionally encrypted, request object as defined in [@RFC9101]. 

The following is a non-normative example of a request object:

```json
{
   "client_id": "client.example.org",
   "client_id_scheme": "x509_san_dns",
   "response_uri": "https://client.example.org/post",
   "response_type": "vp_token",
   "response_mode": "direct_post",
   "presentation_definition": {...},
   "nonce": "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",
   "state" : "eyJhb...6-sVA"
}
```

> The Wallet MUST process the request as defined in [@RFC9101]. Additionally, if the Wallet passed a `wallet_nonce` in the post request, the Wallet MUST validate whether the request object contains the respective nonce value in a `wallet_nonce`. If it does not, the Wallet MUST terminate request processing. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Wallet MUST process the request as defined in [@RFC9101]. Additionally, if the Wallet passed a `wallet_nonce` in the post request, the Wallet MUST validate whether the request object contains the respective nonce value in a `wallet_nonce` claim. If it does not, the Wallet MUST terminate request processing. 
```

The request object MUST fulfill the requirements as defined in (#vp_token_request).

> The Wallet MUST extract the set of authorization request parameters from the Request Object. The Wallet MUST only use the parameters in this Request Object, even if the same parameter was provided in an authorization request query parameter. The Client ID value in the `client_id` authorization request parameter in the Request Object 'client_id' claim MUST be identical. If the Authorization Request contains a `client_id_scheme` parameter, the `client_id_scheme` authorization request parameter in the Request Object 'client_id_scheme' claim MUST be identical. If any of these conditions is not met, the Wallet MUST terminate request processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Wallet MUST extract the set of authorization request parameters from the Request Object. The Wallet MUST only use the parameters in this Request Object, even if the same parameter was provided in an authorization request query parameter. The Client ID value in the `client_id` authorization request parameter in the Request Object 'client_id' claim MUST be identical. If the Authorization Request contains a `client_id_scheme` parameter, the `client_id_scheme` authorization request parameter in the Request Object `client_id_scheme` claim MUST be identical. If any of these conditions is not met, the Wallet MUST terminate request processing.
```

Reviewer 4: I suggest using `If any of these conditions are not met, the Wallet MUST terminate request processing.`

Other specifications can define further values for the `client_id_scheme` parameter. It is RECOMMENDED to use collision-resistant names for such values.

## Request URI Method POST {#request_uri_method_post}

This request is handled by the Request URI endpoint of the Verifier.  

> The request MUST use the HTTP POST method with the https scheme, and the content type "application/x-www-form-urlencoded" and the accept header set to "application/oauth-authz-req+jwt". 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The request MUST use the HTTP POST method with the https scheme, and the content type "application/json" and the accept header set to "application/oauth-authz-req+jwt". 
```

Author: the content type is correct, we follow the OAuth philosophy of form encoded requests and JSON payload in the response (see direct post)

Reviewer 12: Maybe this document belongs in the OAUTH WG, if we are going to follow OAUTH philosophy.

I'm a -1 to form url encoding in new APIs, but it the goal is consistency with OAUTH I could live with that assuming review from OAUTH experts.

Happy to be in the rough on this though.

Author: as I said, the direct post endpoint is form encoded, too. If we change this to JSON, we must change the direct post as well.

Reviewer 5: i don't think we should prevent an option for the wallet to be able to send its attestation to the verifier using client auth in which case form url encoded is probbaly more future proofing

Author: WG call: suggest to leave as is and discuss potential move to JSON encoding in an issue.

Author: filed issue #132

The following parameters are defined: 

`wallet_metadata`:

> : OPTIONAL. OPTIONAL. A String containing a JSON Object containing metadata parameters as defined in (#as_metadata_parameters). 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
: OPTIONAL. A JSON Object containing metadata parameters as defined in (#as_metadata_parameters).
```

Author: see above, it is a form encoded request

`wallet_nonce`:
: OPTIONAL. A String containing a value the Verifier MUST use in the `wallet_nonce` authorization parameter when creating the signed presentation request object. For example, a base64url encoded fresh, cryptographically random number with sufficient entropy.  

> If the Wallet wants the Verifier to encrypt the request object, it SHOULD use the `jwks` or `jwks_uri` parameter within `wallet_metadata` to pass the public key for the input to the key agreement. Other mechanisms to pass the encryption key can be used as well. 

Reviewer 6: I'm fine with this direction but I would feel better if we could include the following `wallet_metadata` parameters as well to indicate support for encryption.
- authorization_encryption_alg_values_supported
- authorization_encryption_enc_values_supported

And for signatures:
- request_object_signing_alg_values_supported

This is also what we do in ISO 18013-7 where JARM encrption is mandatory. In ISO 18013-7, the wallet metadata is assumed to be statically pre-populated to the verifier.

Author: please propose text

Reviewer 6: See proposal below.

The following is a non-normative example of a request:

```
  POST /request HTTP/1.1
    Host: client.example.org
    Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

    wallet_metadata=%7B%22vp_formats_supported%22%3A%7B%22jwt_vc_json%22%3A%7B%22alg_values_supported
    %22%3A%5B%22ES256K%22%2C%22ES384%22%5D%7D%2C%22jwt_vp_json%22%3A%7B%22alg_values_supported%22%3A%
    5B%22ES256K%22%2C%22EdDSA%22%5D%7D%7D%7D&
    wallet_nonce=qPmxiNFCR3QTm19POc8u
```

### Request URI Response

> The Request URI response MUST be an HTTP response with the content type "application/oauth-authz-req+jwt" and the body being a signed, optionally encrypted, request object as defined in [@RFC9101]. The request object MUST fulfill the requirements as defined in (#vp_token_request).

Reviewer 6: Does it have to be always signed?

Reviewer 10: I think it's worth considering allow a json content type for the response when using the new post mode, and hence deprecating the use of unsigned jws. It might be something to discuss after this is merged.

Author: filed issue #130

The following is a non-normative example of a request object:

```json
{
   "client_id": "client.example.org",
   "client_id_scheme": "x509_san_dns",
   "response_uri": "https://client.example.org/post",
   "response_type": "vp_token",
   "response_mode": "direct_post",
   "presentation_definition": {...},

>    "nonce": "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
   "nonce": "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",
   "wallet_nonce": "qPmxiNFCR3QTm19POc8u",
```

   "state" : "eyJhb...6-sVA"
}
```

The Wallet MUST process the request as defined in [@RFC9101]. Additionally, if the Wallet passed a `wallet_nonce` in the post request, the Wallet MUST validate whether the request object contains the respective nonce value in a `wallet_nonce` claim. If it does not, the Wallet MUST terminate request processing. 

> The Wallet MUST extract the set of authorization request parameters from the Request Object. The Wallet MUST only use the parameters in this Request Object, even if the same parameter was provided in an authorization request query parameter. The Client ID value in the `client_id` authorization request parameter in the Request Object 'client_id' claim MUST be identical. If the Authorization Request contains a `client_id_scheme` parameter, the `client_id_scheme` authorization request parameter in the Request Object `client_id_scheme` claim MUST be identical. If any of these conditions are not met, the Wallet MUST terminate request processing.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The Wallet MUST extract the set of authorization request parameters from the Request Object. The Wallet MUST only use the parameters in this Request Object, even if the same parameter was provided in an Authorization Request query parameter. The Client Identifier value in the `client_id` Authorization Request parameter and the Request Object 'client_id' claim value MUST be identical. If the Authorization Request contains a `client_id_scheme` parameter, the `client_id_scheme` Authorization Request parameter and the Request Object `client_id_scheme` claim value MUST be identical. If any of these conditions are not met, the Wallet MUST terminate request processing.
```

    5B%22ES256K%22%2C%22EdDSA%22%5D%7D%7D%7D&
    wallet_nonce=qPmxiNFCR3QTm19POc8u
```

### Request URI Response

The Request URI response MUST be an HTTP response with the content type "application/oauth-authz-req+jwt" and the body being a signed, optionally encrypted, request object as defined in [@RFC9101]. The request object MUST fulfill the requirements as defined in (#vp_token_request).

The following is a non-normative example of a request object:

```json
{
   "client_id": "client.example.org",
   "client_id_scheme": "x509_san_dns",
   "response_uri": "https://client.example.org/post",
   "response_type": "vp_token",
   "response_mode": "direct_post",
   "presentation_definition": {...},
   "nonce": "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",
   "wallet_nonce": "qPmxiNFCR3QTm19POc8u",
   "state" : "eyJhb...6-sVA"
}
```

The Wallet MUST process the request as defined in [@RFC9101]. Additionally, if the Wallet passed a `wallet_nonce` in the post request, the Wallet MUST validate whether the request object contains the respective nonce value in a `wallet_nonce` claim. If it does not, the Wallet MUST terminate request processing. 

> The Wallet MUST extract the set of authorization request parameters from the Request Object. The Wallet MUST only use the parameters in this Request Object, even if the same parameter was provided in an Authorization Request query parameter. The Client Identifier value in the `client_id` Authorization Request parameter and the Request Object 'client_id' claim value MUST be identical. If the Authorization Request contains a `client_id_scheme` parameter, the `client_id_scheme` Authorization Request parameter and the Request Object `client_id_scheme` claim value MUST be identical. If any of these conditions are not met, the Wallet MUST terminate request processing.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Wallet MUST extract the set of authorization request parameters from the Request Object. The Wallet MUST only use the parameters in this Request Object, even if the same parameter was provided in an Authorization Request query parameter. The Client Identifier value in the `client_id` Authorization Request parameter and the Request Object `client_id` claim value MUST be identical. If the Authorization Request contains a `client_id_scheme` parameter, the `client_id_scheme` Authorization Request parameter and the Request Object `client_id_scheme` claim value MUST be identical. If any of these conditions are not met, the Wallet MUST terminate request processing.
```

Other specifications can define further values for the `client_id_scheme` parameter. It is RECOMMENDED to use collision-resistant names for such values.

## Request URI Method POST {#request_uri_method_post}

This request is handled by the Request URI endpoint of the Verifier.  

> The request MUST use the HTTP POST method with the https scheme, and the content type `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` and the accept header set to `application/oauth-authz-req+jwt`.

Author: because it follows the design of direct post (and the OAuth requests). I have filed an issue to have general discussion about form vs json encoded

see https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VP/pull/59#discussion_r1521452908

> The request MUST use the HTTP POST method with the https scheme, and the content type "application/x-www-form-urlencoded" and the accept header set to "application/oauth-authz-req+jwt". 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The request MUST use the HTTP POST method with the https scheme, and the content type `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` and the accept header set to `application/oauth-authz-req+jwt`.
```

The following parameters are defined: 

`wallet_metadata`:

> : OPTIONAL. OPTIONAL. A String containing a JSON Object containing metadata parameters as defined in (#as_metadata_parameters). 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
: OPTIONAL. A String containing a JSON Object containing metadata parameters as defined in (#as_metadata_parameters). 
```

> : OPTIONAL. OPTIONAL. A String containing a JSON Object containing metadata parameters as defined in (#as_metadata_parameters). 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
: OPTIONAL. OPTIONAL. A String containing a JSON-encoded object containing metadata parameters as defined in (#as_metadata_parameters). 
```

`wallet_nonce`:
: OPTIONAL. A String containing a value the Verifier MUST use in the `wallet_nonce` authorization parameter when creating the signed presentation request object. For example, a base64url encoded fresh, cryptographically random number with sufficient entropy.  

> If the Wallet wants the Verifier to encrypt the request object, it SHOULD use the `jwks` or `jwks_uri` parameter within `wallet_metadata` to pass the public key for the input to the key agreement. Other mechanisms to pass the encryption key can be used as well. 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
If the Wallet requires the Verifier to encrypt the Request Object, it SHOULD use the `jwks` or `jwks_uri` parameter within `wallet_metadata` to pass the public key for the input to the key agreement. Other mechanisms to pass the encryption key can be used as well. If the Wallet requires an encrypted Authorization Response, it SHOULD specify supported encryption algorithms using the `authorization_encryption_alg_values_supported` and `authorization_encryption_enc_values_supported` parameters. Additionally, if the`client_id_scheme` value permits JWS Request Objects, the Wallet SHOULD list supported cryptographic algorithms for securing the Request Object through the `request_object_signing_alg_values_supported` parameter. Conversely, the Wallet MUST NOT include this parameter if the `client_id_scheme` precludes JWS Request Objects.
```

Reviewer 2: This should be new points in the list as they don't belong to this paragraph

The following is a non-normative example of a request:

```

>   POST /request HTTP/1.1
>     Host: client.example.org
>     Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
> 
>     wallet_metadata=%7B%22vp_formats_supported%22%3A%7B%22jwt_vc_json%22%3A%7B%22alg_values_supported
>     %22%3A%5B%22ES256K%22%2C%22ES384%22%5D%7D%2C%22jwt_vp_json%22%3A%7B%22alg_values_supported%22%3A%
>     5B%22ES256K%22%2C%22EdDSA%22%5D%7D%7D%7D&
>     wallet_nonce=qPmxiNFCR3QTm19POc8u

Reviewer 7: Minimum fix for the indentation (I'll file a separate issue to fix & unify the indentation throughout the spec).
```suggestion
  POST /request HTTP/1.1
  Host: client.example.org
  Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

    wallet_metadata=%7B%22vp_formats_supported%22%3A%7B%22jwt_vc_json%22%3A%7B%22alg_values_supported
    %22%3A%5B%22ES256K%22%2C%22ES384%22%5D%7D%2C%22jwt_vp_json%22%3A%7B%22alg_values_supported%22%3A%
    5B%22ES256K%22%2C%22EdDSA%22%5D%7D%7D%7D&
    wallet_nonce=qPmxiNFCR3QTm19POc8u
```

Other specifications can define further values for the `client_id_scheme` parameter. It is RECOMMENDED to use collision-resistant names for such values.

> ## Request URI Method POST {#request_uri_method_post}

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
## Request URI Method `post` {#request_uri_method_post}
```

> This request is handled by the Request URI endpoint of the Verifier.  

Reviewer 5: this is a new endpoint, right? if so, I think that should be made clearer.

```suggestion
This request is handled by the Request URI endpoint of the Verifier.
```

Author: this endpoint was defined in RFC 9101. This spec just adds a new HTTP method to it.

> The request MUST use the HTTP POST method with the https scheme, and the content type `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` and the accept header set to `application/oauth-authz-req+jwt`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The request MUST use the HTTP POST method with the `https` scheme, and the content type `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` and the accept header set to `application/oauth-authz-req+jwt`.
```

I am sorry, I think I missed a discussion on the accept header, but JAR does not seem to mandate `application/oauth-authz-req+jwt`:

> A [Request Object](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9101#request_object) ([Section 2.1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9101#request_object)) has the media type [[RFC2046](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2046)] application/oauth-authz-req+jwt. Note that some existing deployments may alternatively be using the type application/jwt.

do we really want to mandate it..?

The following parameters are defined: 

`wallet_metadata`:

> : OPTIONAL. A String containing a JSON-encoded object containing metadata parameters as defined in (#as_metadata_parameters). 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
: OPTIONAL. A String containing a JSON object containing metadata parameters as defined in (#as_metadata_parameters). 
```

> : OPTIONAL. OPTIONAL. A String containing a JSON-encoded object containing metadata parameters as defined in (#as_metadata_parameters). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: OPTIONAL. A String containing a JSON-encoded object containing metadata parameters as defined in (#as_metadata_parameters). 
```

`wallet_nonce`:

> : OPTIONAL. A String containing a value the Verifier MUST use in the `wallet_nonce` authorization parameter when creating the signed presentation request object. For example, a base64url encoded fresh, cryptographically random number with sufficient entropy.  

Reviewer 5: what is a presentation request object? the term is not used anywhere else.
```suggestion
: OPTIONAL. A String value used to mitigate replay attacks of the Authorization Request. When received, the Verifier MUST use it as the `wallet_nonce` value in the signed authorization request object. Value can be a base64url encoded, fresh, cryptographically random number with sufficient entropy.  
```

> : OPTIONAL. A String containing a value the Verifier MUST use in the `wallet_nonce` authorization parameter when creating the signed presentation request object. For example, a base64url encoded fresh, cryptographically random number with sufficient entropy.  

Reviewer 5: also `wallet_nonce` authorization request parameter needs to be defined somewhere else. this section is wallet's request parameter.

> If the Wallet requires the Verifier to encrypt the Request Object, it SHOULD use the `jwks` or `jwks_uri` parameter within `wallet_metadata` to pass the public key for the input to the key agreement. Other mechanisms to pass the encryption key can be used as well. If the Wallet requires an encrypted Authorization Response, it SHOULD specify supported encryption algorithms using the `authorization_encryption_alg_values_supported` and `authorization_encryption_enc_values_supported` parameters. 
> 
> Additionally, if the `client_id_scheme` value permits JWS Request Objects, the Wallet SHOULD list supported cryptographic algorithms for securing the Request Object through the `request_object_signing_alg_values_supported` parameter. Conversely, the Wallet MUST NOT include this parameter if the `client_id_scheme` precludes JWS Request Objects.

Reviewer 5: `authorization_encryption_alg_values_supported` and `authorization_encryption_enc_values_supported` parameters are not RFC8414 parameters but are being defined in this sentence. they need to be defined either under line 497 as parameters that can be used in wallet_metadata object, or under the wallet metadata section
 
what are `JWS Request Objects`? they are not defined in rfc9101 nor in this text.
```suggestion
If the Wallet requires the Verifier to encrypt the Request Object, it SHOULD use the `jwks` or `jwks_uri` parameter within the `wallet_metadata` parameter to pass the public key for the input to the key agreement. Other mechanisms to pass the encryption key can be used as well. If the Wallet requires an encrypted Authorization Response, it SHOULD specify supported encryption algorithms using the `authorization_encryption_alg_values_supported` and `authorization_encryption_enc_values_supported` parameters. 

Additionally, if the `client_id_scheme` value permits signed Request Objects, the Wallet SHOULD list supported cryptographic algorithms for securing the Request Object through the `request_object_signing_alg_values_supported` parameter. Conversely, the Wallet MUST NOT include this parameter if the `client_id_scheme` precludes signed Request Objects.
```

Reviewer 5: I am also a little confused with `request_object_signing_alg_values_supported` parameter because it is mentioned only once in rfc9101 (text below) and it is not defined in rfc8414. 

> the authorization server can inform the client of the algorithms that it supports in its authorization server metadata [[RFC8414](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8414)], specifically, the metadata values request_object_signing_alg_values_supported, request_object_encryption_alg_values_supported, and request_object_encryption_enc_values_supported.

Reviewer 6: Those parameters are also used by ISO 18103-7 which is why I think it would be good to keep those. I agree it is odd that they don't show up in RFC9101 in the IANA registration section. Perhaps, we can fix this with this PR?

Reviewer 6: Both are defined in https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html. I believe there was some specification that allows OIDC parameters to be used in OAuth2 too but I don't remember where this spec was. IMO, it would be good to at least add the reference to https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html.

Reviewer: The history is a bit sorted. OIDC discovery came first. But OIDF documents can't establish an IANA registry. rfc8414 came later and established the registry https://www.iana.org/assignments/oauth-parameters/oauth-parameters.xhtml#authorization-server-metadata after which OIDC discovery retroactively made the registrations in an errata. At the bottom of https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8414#section-2 AS metadata does say: 

> Additional authorization server metadata parameters MAY also be used.
>   Some are defined by other specifications, such as OpenID Connect
>   Discovery 1.0 [[OpenID.Discovery](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8414#ref-OpenID.Discovery)]. 

Then RFC9101 just refers to rfc8414 (but really I think meaning the registry it set up) and the request_object_* metadata parameters by name.

It's all confusing and not obvious. And I don't know if any of that helps this discussion. But that's the history/explanation of how that stuff came to be.

Author: can someone please propose text I can incorporate?

The following is a non-normative example of a request:

```
  POST /request HTTP/1.1
  Host: client.example.org
  Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

    wallet_metadata=%7B%22vp_formats_supported%22%3A%7B%22jwt_vc_json%22%3A%7B%22alg_values_supported
    %22%3A%5B%22ES256K%22%2C%22ES384%22%5D%7D%2C%22jwt_vp_json%22%3A%7B%22alg_values_supported%22%3A%
    5B%22ES256K%22%2C%22EdDSA%22%5D%7D%7D%7D&
    wallet_nonce=qPmxiNFCR3QTm19POc8u
```

### Request URI Response

> The Request URI response MUST be an HTTP response with the content type "application/oauth-authz-req+jwt" and the body being a signed, optionally encrypted, request object as defined in [@RFC9101]. The request object MUST fulfill the requirements as defined in (#vp_token_request).

Reviewer 5: per my comment above and I am sorry, if I missed a discussion, but JAR does not seem to "mandate" application/oauth-authz-req+jwt:

> A Request Object (Section 2.1) has the media type [RFC2046] application/oauth-authz-req+jwt. Note that some existing deployments may alternatively be using the type application/jwt.

some implementations I know do not use `application/oauth-authz-req+jwt` with JAR. do we really want to mandate it..?

The following is a non-normative example of a request object:

```json
{
   "client_id": "client.example.org",
   "client_id_scheme": "x509_san_dns",
   "response_uri": "https://client.example.org/post",
   "response_type": "vp_token",
   "response_mode": "direct_post",
   "presentation_definition": {...},
   "nonce": "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",
   "wallet_nonce": "qPmxiNFCR3QTm19POc8u",
   "state" : "eyJhb...6-sVA"
}
```

> The Wallet MUST process the request as defined in [@RFC9101]. Additionally, if the Wallet passed a `wallet_nonce` in the post request, the Wallet MUST validate whether the request object contains the respective nonce value in a `wallet_nonce` claim. If it does not, the Wallet MUST terminate request processing. 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The Wallet MUST process the request as defined in [@RFC9101]. Additionally, if the Wallet passed a `wallet_nonce` in the POST request, the Wallet MUST validate whether the request object contains the respective nonce value in a `wallet_nonce` claim. If it does not, the Wallet MUST terminate request processing. 
```

> The Wallet MUST extract the set of authorization request parameters from the Request Object. The Wallet MUST only use the parameters in this Request Object, even if the same parameter was provided in an Authorization Request query parameter. The Client Identifier value in the `client_id` Authorization Request parameter and the Request Object `client_id` claim value MUST be identical. If the Authorization Request contains a `client_id_scheme` parameter, the `client_id_scheme` Authorization Request parameter and the Request Object `client_id_scheme` claim value MUST be identical. If any of these conditions are not met, the Wallet MUST terminate request processing.

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
The Wallet MUST extract the set of Authorization Request parameters from the Request Object. The Wallet MUST only use the parameters in this Request Object, even if the same parameter was provided in an Authorization Request query parameter. The Client Identifier value in the `client_id` Authorization Request parameter and the Request Object `client_id` claim value MUST be identical. If the Authorization Request contains a `client_id_scheme` parameter, the `client_id_scheme` Authorization Request parameter and the Request Object `client_id_scheme` claim value MUST be identical. If any of these conditions are not met, the Wallet MUST terminate request processing.
```

## Request URI Method POST {#request_uri_method_post}

This request is offered at the Request URI endpoint by the Verifier. In case of success, the response is a Request Object that the Wallet MUST process in the same way as a Request Object as defined in [@RFC9101]. 

The request MUST use the HTTP POST method with the https scheme and the media type set to "application/oauth-authz-req+jwt".

The following parameters are defined: 

`state`:
: OPTIONAL. A JSON String containing the value of the corresponding authorization Request's `state` parameter, if present.

`issuer`:
: OPTIONAL. A JSON containing an HTTPS URL designating the Issuer URL of the Wallet (acting as a OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server). The Verifier MAY obtain the Wallet's metadata by adding the well-know location `oauth-authorization-server` as specified in [@!RFC8414]. Metadata MAY also be provided by other means, for example in the `wallet_metadata`parameter`.

`wallet_metadata`:
: OPTIONAL. A JSON Object containing metadata parameters as defined in (#as_metadata_parameters).

> `issuer_nonce`:

Reviewer 2: why is this called an issuer_nonce? Isn't it provided by the wallet?

Reviewer 6: issuer (AS) == wallet

Author: should we better call it `wallet_nonce`?

: OPTIONAL. A JSON String containing as fresh, cryptographically random number with sufficient entropy the Verifier MUST use when creating the signed presentation request object. 

> `w_ephm_key`:

Reviewer 6: I would add the following:
- If `wallet_metadata` is present, then the `issuer` parameter MUST be omitted.
- I would rename `w_ephm_key` to `wallet_epk`. 

Ideally, we would also use `jwks` from the `wallet_metadata` instead of `w_ephm_key` but I just figured that AS metadata only defines `jwks_uri`. `jwks` is only supported for clients.

Reviewer 6: I just checked and OpenID Federation actually uses `jwks` but I couldn't find it in the IANA registry yet, so reusing `jwks` from `wallet_metadata` would still be an option. In that case, we should say that `wallet_epk` MUST not be present if `wallet_metadata` is present, or MUST match the `jwks` in the metadata.

Reviewer 2: Why do we need an issuer of the wallet at all? This only risks fragmentation of the ecosystem. I would keep wallet_metadata as anonymous and general as possible.

Author: I'm fine with moving the key into the `wallet_metadata` as this mirrors the way we do it for verifiers. We can register the `jwk` claim in our spec.

Other specifications can define further values for the `client_id_scheme` parameter. It is RECOMMENDED to use collision-resistant names for such values.

## Request URI Method POST {#request_uri_method_post}

> This request is offered at the Request URI endpoint by the Verifier. In case of success, the response is a request object that the Wallet MUST process in the same way as a request object as defined in [@RFC9101]. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This request is offered at the Request URI endpoint by the Verifier. In case of success, the response is a Request Object that the Wallet MUST process in the same way as a Request Object as defined in [@RFC9101]. 
```

> The request MUST use the POST method, the https scheme and the media type set to "application/oauth-authz-req+jwt".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The request MUST use the HTTP POST method with the https scheme and the media type set to "application/oauth-authz-req+jwt".
```

The following parameters are defined: 

`state`:
: OPTIONAL. A JSON String containing the value of the corresponding authorization Request's `state` parameter, if present.

> `issuer`:

Reviewer 2: This seems duplicate to `wallet_metadata` and may add more difficulty for the wallet if it has to merge the metadata from two possiblities. I'm in favor of only transmitting the ata with `wallet_metadata`

Author: Those are two options to pass metadata. 
wallet_metadata allows to send dynamically created data, issuer has the advantage of giving some binding between the issuer URL and the actual metadata. I think both are valid options (until we have substantial implementation experience).

- The Presentation Definition URL can be reached, but the specified `presentation_definition` cannot be found at the URL.

`invalid_request_uri_mode`:

> - The value of the `request_uri_mode` request parameter is neither `get` nor `post`.

Reviewer 4: I don't know what is a value for `get` and `post` to be insensitive but if they are, this sentence should probably reflect this.

Author: added (case-insensitive)

- The Presentation Definition URL can be reached, but the specified `presentation_definition` cannot be found at the URL.

`invalid_request_uri_mode`:

> - The value of the `request_uri_mode` request parameter is neither `get` nor `post`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- The value of the `request_uri_method` request parameter is neither `get` nor `post`.
```

- The Presentation Definition URL can be reached, but the specified `presentation_definition` cannot be found at the URL.

> `invalid_request_uri_mode`:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
`invalid_request_uri_method`:
```

> - The value of the `request_uri_method` request parameter is neither `get` nor `post` (case-sensitive).

Reviewer 7: Shouldn't that be "case-insensitive"?

Author: the definition of the request parameters defines it as case sensitive. we can change that, if you want

Reviewer 7: But the definition says:

> Two case-insensitive values are defined for `request_uri_method` in this specification: `get` and `post`.

I'd prefer case-sensitive.

Whenever TLS is used, a TLS server certificate check MUST be performed, per [@!RFC6125].

# Privacy Considerations

## Authorization Requests with Request URI

> The wallet MUST not sent personally identifiable information (PII) or any other data that could be used for fingerprinting to the Request URI in order to prevent user tracking. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Wallet MUST NOT sent personally identifiable information (PII) or any other data that could be used for fingerprinting to the Request URI in order to prevent user tracking. 
```

> The Wallet MUST NOT sent personally identifiable information (PII) or any other data that could be used for fingerprinting to the Request URI in order to prevent user tracking. 

Reviewer 7: This must be expanded IMO. We discussed aspects of this on the calls or on PRs here in this repository:

- If no user interaction is required before sending the request, it is easy to request on a large scale and in an automated fashion (e.g.) the wallet capabilities from all visitors of a website. Even without PII this can reveal some information about users, like their nationality (e.g., a Wallet with special capabilities only used in one EU member state)
- Mandatory user interaction before sending the request, like clicking a button, unlocking the wallet or even just showing a screen of the app, can make this less attractive/likely to being exploited.
- Requests should be sent with the minimal amount of information possible, and in particular, without any HTTP headers revealing libraries used or their versions.

Whenever TLS is used, a TLS server certificate check MUST be performed, per [@!RFC6125].

# Privacy Considerations

## Authorization Requests with Request URI

> The Wallet MUST NOT send personally identifiable information (PII) or any other data that could be used for fingerprinting to the Request URI in order to prevent user tracking. 

Reviewer 4: I guess "any other data" also includes HTTP headers such as "User-Agent" and "Client"... I'm also wondering whether the specifications should explicitly suggest excluding them for Wallets due to privacy considerations.

Reviewer 4: It's also uncommon to see that libraries works with cookies exactly in the same way like browsers do. So, at some degree, it all applicable to the "Cookies" request header as well.

Just as an example take a quick look at https://docs.oracle.com/en%2Fjava%2Fjavase%2F21%2Fdocs%2Fapi%2F%2F/java.base/java/net/CookieManager.html

Author: It applies to all data, independent of the part of the request it is passed in or the representation. Can you please suggest text?

Reviewer 4: @tlodderstedt, let's leave it as is then... it would make more sense to cover these nuances in conformance tests for the spec.

Whenever TLS is used, a TLS server certificate check MUST be performed, per [@!RFC6125].

# Privacy Considerations

## Authorization Requests with Request URI

> If no user interaction is required before sending the request, it is easy to request on a large scale and in an automated fashion (e.g.) the wallet capabilities from all visitors of a website. Even without PII this can reveal some information about users, like their nationality (e.g., a Wallet with special capabilities only used in one EU member state).

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
If no user interaction is required before sending the request, it is easy to request on a large scale and in an automated fashion (e.g.) the wallet capabilities from all visitors of a website. Even without personally identifiable information (PII) this can reveal some information about users, like their nationality (e.g., a Wallet with special capabilities only used in one EU member state).
```

Mandatory user interaction before sending the request, like clicking a button, unlocking the wallet or even just showing a screen of the app, can make this less attractive/likely to being exploited.

> Requests from the Wallet to the Verifier should be sent with the minimal amount of information possible, and in particular, without any HTTP headers revealing libraries used or their versions. The Wallet MUST NOT send personally identifiable information (PII) or any other data that could be used for fingerprinting to the Request URI in order to prevent user tracking. 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Requests from the Wallet to the Verifier SHOULD be sent with the minimal amount of information possible, and in particular, without any HTTP headers identifying the software used for the request (e.g., HTTP libraries or their versions). The Wallet MUST NOT send PII or any other data that could be used for fingerprinting to the Request URI in order to prevent user tracking. 
```

Whenever TLS is used, a TLS server certificate check MUST be performed, per [@!RFC6125].

# Privacy Considerations

## Authorization Requests with Request URI

> If no user interaction is required before sending the request, it is easy to request on a large scale and in an automated fashion (e.g.) the wallet capabilities from all visitors of a website. Even without personally identifiable information (PII) this can reveal some information about users, like their nationality (e.g., a Wallet with special capabilities only used in one EU member state).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If no user interaction is required before sending the request, it is easy to request on a large scale and in an automated fashion the wallet capabilities from all visitors of a website. Even without personally identifiable information (PII) this can reveal some information about users, like their nationality (e.g., a Wallet with special capabilities only used in one EU member state).
```

Mandatory user interaction before sending the request, like clicking a button, unlocking the wallet or even just showing a screen of the app, can make this less attractive/likely to being exploited.

> Requests from the Wallet to the Verifier SHOULD be sent with the minimal amount of information possible, and in particular, without any HTTP headers identifying the software used for the request (e.g., HTTP libraries or their versions). The Wallet MUST NOT send PII or any other data that could be used for fingerprinting to the Request URI in order to prevent user tracking. 

Reviewer 4: > Requests from the Wallet to the Verifier SHOULD be sent with the minimal amount of information possible, and in particular, without any HTTP headers identifying the software used for the request (e.g., HTTP libraries or their versions). The Wallet MUST NOT send PII or any other data that could be used for fingerprinting to the Request URI in order to prevent user tracking.

I would like to add that this section is applicable for all interactions between the Wallet to the Verifier, not only to 
"Authorization Requests with Request URI".

Author: the request sent to the request uri is especially sensitive as the wallet has not established trust yet in the Verifier, that's why the requirements are so strict. the direct post, in contrast, will send all sorts of PII to the Verifier.

> 
> Requests from the Wallet to the Verifier SHOULD be sent with the minimal amount of information possible, and in particular, without any HTTP headers identifying the software used for the request (e.g., HTTP libraries or their versions). The Wallet MUST NOT send PII or any other data that could be used for fingerprinting to the Request URI in order to prevent user tracking. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the Wallet is acting within a trust framework that regulates the rules by which Verifiers may receive data, Wallets are RECOMMENDED to validate the Verifier's authenticity and authorization given by `client_id` and that the `request_uri` corresponds to this Verifier.

Requests from the Wallet to the Verifier SHOULD be sent with the minimal amount of information possible, and in particular, without any HTTP headers identifying the software used for the request (e.g., HTTP libraries or their versions). The Wallet MUST NOT send PII or any other data that could be used for fingerprinting to the Request URI in order to prevent user tracking. 
```

Reviewer: seems legit but is it actionable? i.e. is there any common/standard way to check that a `request_uri` corresponds to a client/verifier?

Reviewer 8: The trust framework should record this information for the verifier. So this is actionable if a trust framework is being used. Unfortunately there is no standard way for a wallet to interact with a trust framework as each will have its own proprietary API.

Reviewer 3: @bc-pi it depends by the trust framework used. A request_uri should be provided within an RP metadata and attested with a signature issued by a trusted third party. The OpenID Federation Trust Chain represent a good example of this.

Reviewer: > request_uri should be provided within an RP metadata

you mean with `request_uris` from https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-registration-1_0.html#ClientMetadata?  i don't think that's been implemented much or works very well (if at all) for requests with dynamic content (like nonce) that are needed in this context

Author: I think the proposed text currently misses the point and is not actionable as there is no text what the wallet should do or not do if the relationship between client id and request URI can be checked.

Suggestion:  If the Wallet is acting within a trust framework that allows the Wallet to determine whether a `request_uri` belongs to a certain `client_id`, the Wallet is RECOMMENDED to validate the Verifier's authenticity and authorization given by `client_id` and that the `request_uri` corresponds to this Verifier. If the link cannot be established in those cases, the Wallet MUST refuse the request.

Reviewer 10: This isn't really a new problem introduced in this PR so we may want to open an issue so we can unblock this PR and have a focussed discussion.

I think there are at least some possibilities, e.g. for x509_san_dns there could be trust in the request_uri if the hostname matches the one in the cert.

Reviewer 6: Another option how to establish trust in x509_san_dns if no suitable root CA is present, is to retrieve the client metadata from a .well-known location where the URL is generated based on the DNSName in the SubjectAlternativeName X509 extension. Note that DNSName is required to be present. If then the key from the HTTPS well-known location matches the key that signed the X509 certificate, this could be a legitimate fallback. @jogu ?

Author: I updated the privacy considerations. Please have a look.

   [[ To be removed from the final specification ]]

   -21

>    * added POST request method for Request URI

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
   * added `post` request method for Request URI
```
